Hello, let's go to the summer retreat!
Summer 2024 has arrived! Let's go to the summer retreat!
From the time of the Buddha, he
decreed that during the three months of the rainy season, monks
must reside in one place to exchange knowledge and practice. The
summer retreat is where monks unite, gather, practice
purity, and preserve the Dharma so that
Buddhists and all sentient beings in
this Dharma realm may enjoy the merits and
blessings from the Three Jewels. In the Anguttara Nikaya, the
two categories of green sources of merit and blessings are
mentioned
here. The householder, the holy disciple,
protects the monks, protects the monks with robes,
protects the monks with alms food, protects the
monks with beds, protects the monks with
sustenance, and protects the monks with healing practices. By
achieving these four practices, the householder, the
holy disciple, enters the appropriate path
for the householder, the path that brings
good reputation, the path that leads to Heaven, with
pure faith in the Buddha's teachings. The monks
experience positive transformations in
life thanks to studying the Dharma and
practicing the Buddha's teachings on the duties
of a householder during the three months of summer. - Ms.
Pham Thi Yen  Together with Buddhist followers from the
Golden Chrysanthemum Club and the Golden Youth Club, we
gathered at 30 monastic retreats across the
North, South, and Central regions to inquire about the health of the Venerable
Monks during the rainy season retreat and to accumulate
merit to protect the Three Jewels. For the peaceful
practice of the four assemblies, the
immense protection of the Buddhist Sangha is indispensable. The
Venerable Monks have to worry about many
tasks and responsibilities to protect the development
of Buddhism. With sincere hearts,
during the 2024 rainy season retreat of the
monks, we, the Buddhist families and friends,
gathered here. We
sincerely offer fragrant flower arrangements to
express our gratitude to the Venerable Monks. We
also hope that the Sangha will increasingly
enhance its position and development, becoming a
solid refuge for lay Buddhists. We respectfully
receive the sincere hearts
of the Buddhist followers. The Venerable Monks at the monastic
retreats have compassionately graced us with their presence,
offering guidance and teachings
to help us diligently practice, cultivate right views, uphold precepts, and strengthen our
Bodhi mind. Respectfully, the
Buddha taught about the rainy season retreat.  The summer retreat is the
lifeblood, the eternal life, the heart
of a Buddhist follower, the glorious existence of
faith and truth. The summer retreat is also a field of
merit for Buddhists to
sow seeds of virtue, to prepare
themselves for the path of practice and
liberation before the compassionate image of the
Buddha. I sincerely pray for the protection of the Three Jewels and the blessings of the Buddha.
Currently, may you, with your virtuous and enlightened bodies,
always maintain your faith
to have abundant provisions for the path to
liberation in the future.
Remember, each of
us, when we practice,
follows the Buddha's teachings: "One good deed brings
blessings to all, and the flowers bloom, bringing fragrance to the entire forest." This
means that when
each person in the family creates
merit and performs good deeds,
not only will their relatives and
friends benefit, but
like a
flower with fragrance and beauty, when it blooms, the whole
forest is filled with its scent. By following the
Buddha's teachings, you create merit,
first offering it to the Buddha, and then contributing to the
summer retreat.  I practice to
accumulate merit and vow to dedicate this merit
to you, my present selves and relatives, so that you may be
reborn in every lifetime to encounter the
Buddha's teachings and
to practice the Dharma in harmony,
guiding your children and relatives to be
imbued with the teachings of the Buddha.
You know
that the greatest blessing in
life is being born as a
human being,
encountering the Buddha's teachings,
and meeting the Sangha. Through
this, you are
connected, even though each of you is in a different place,
in the
spirit of the Six
Harmonies, to
practice together,
firstly to bring peace to
yourselves and your families, and at the same time to
contribute to a peaceful society. I
hope that in this current period, I
know
that
practice has many obstacles, both
internal and
external, but if
you always
strive with unwavering faith in the
Buddha, the Dharma, and the Sangha,
you will surely learn many
beneficial things for yourself,
never wavering in
that faith, and I will
vow to do all the best things and
say all the best things.  What is best is
to think of the best things
for everyone, bringing peace and
happiness to people, and vowing
never to cause others
sorrow or pain because of
oneself. Always remember to apply the spirit of Six
Harmonies to your
interactions with your family and
everyone around you. Only then will
your practice be
successful,
because practice is to apply it to
your real life to bring
peace and happiness, dedicating the merit and
praying for the
Golden Chrysanthemum Club to grow and develop, for
Buddhists to diligently practice and bring peace to
themselves and everyone they
interact with. That is the title you
have given to the Golden
Chrysanthemum Club: Practicing the Six Harmonies. We wish you always peace and
happiness. On behalf of the Buddhists, Ms. Pham
Thi Yen offered words of gratitude. We appreciate the precious
teachings that the Venerable Monks and
Elders have compassionately imparted. We
know that no act of giving is as noble
as the giving of the Venerable Monks and Elders. They
have renounced everything, giving everything, following in their
footsteps.
Through the Buddha's teachings,
we, your disciples, will practice
letting go of material possessions,
such as wealth, to practice abandoning
stinginess and greed, so that we may
later attain a life of purity and virtue.
Following in your footsteps,
we are immensely happy to receive your compassion, support, and guidance. We humbly obey your teachings, diligently practicing Buddhism,
listening to the Dharma, observing the precepts, and performing
good deeds befitting lay
practitioners. In this life, we may dwell
in the Three Jewels, and in the next, we may also dwell in the Three Jewels. We
pray for your good
health, so that you may continue to benefit us and all sentient beings.
Over 2600 years have passed, but the
beautiful tradition of monks observing the Rains Retreat
and lay Buddhists protecting the Three Jewels during
the three months of the rainy season has been inherited and
continued to this day. In the Dhammapada, the
Buddha taught that mind leads all things; mind is the
master, mind creates. If with a pure mind, one speaks
or acts, peace follows like a
shadow.  Never leaving the image, I pray with a
pure heart and sincere faith in the Three Jewels, that the monks and nuns may
peacefully practice their teachings, and that the Buddhists and their
families may be happy and joyful. May they diligently
practice and perform good deeds,
accumulating merit. I pray that the Dharma may be enlightened in the future, and that Buddhists may have the necessary conditions to become monks and nuns, seeking the path to enlightenment and bringing true happiness and benefit to all beings. Happy Buddhist season of An Thu! (This last sentence is a separate, unrelated thought and doesn't form a coherent sentence.)